Good afternoon.
In the history of the
Macintosh operating system,
there are some defining moments.
One of those moments was of course 1984,
with the release of the first Macintosh.
I'm sure everyone here is really fond
of that little black and white screen.
If you look carefully,
you'll see all the sizes for
folders expressed for disk
sizes expressed in kilobytes.
We've gone quite a ways
over the last two decades.
Now there's another moment
that's very dear to my heart,
which is 2001, when we released the
first version of Mac OS X,
version 10.0.
It already had all the elements
you are now familiar with:
the Aqua user interface and
the strong Unix underpinnings.
The reception has been fantastic,
from our users and from you,
who have brought thousands of
applications to the platform.
So we felt it was time,
last year at the developers conference,
to symbolically bury Mac OS 9.
and that meant that for
development purposes,
Mac OS X life was over.
It was time to move on to X.
And a few months after the
developers conference last year,
we released Jaguar,
which was probably the most or one
of the most successful OS releases
Apple has ever had in its history.
There were lots of features in Jaguar.
Some were brand new,
revolutionary features and
some were just evolution.
We're committed to constantly
improving all our components.
So now we're moving towards Panfer.
So what's in store for Panfer?
[Transcript missing]
Now, the basics of mobility, of course,
is great portables.
And we are happy because we have
the best portables in the industry.
We introduced at the beginning
of the year the 12-inch,
the 17-inch, fantastic portables.
But of course,
what you're interested in more
is what's inside those things.
So this is an X-ray.
This is what's really inside
one of those portables.
So if you notice at
the top of that X-ray,
there's kind of a funny-looking
bent piece of metal.
That's the antenna.
We've been, of course,
the leaders in wireless technology.
First, with 802.11b, the airport,
11 megabits, of course.
And more recently,
at the beginning of the year,
with 802.11g, which goes to 54 megabit.
That's what we call
export-- airport extreme.
We are also adding, for Panther, 802.11x.
Now, the whole naming of those
things is a little confusing,
all those bizarre letters
that are added after numbers.
802.11x is actually not
just a wireless protocol.
It's an authentication protocol
that can be used for all networking.
And this is where we
put it in the system,
at the place where it should be,
so that all networking
can leverage 802.11x.
Okay, so let's go back to that picture
of the portable and let's focus
on the modem port and the ethernet
port and the antenna again.
All those things together
are networking ports.
So networking is a big
focus of what we do.
There's a lot of resources that
go into doing networking right.
And that's really hard because
networking is fundamentally very hard.
There's a joke that networking is
only one letter away from not working.
And that's really true.
And when you do the rehearsals
for this show and you have all
kinds of networking problems,
the routers that explode
and all that stuff,
you realize networking is really,
really hard.
So because it's so hard,
we make it a system service so
that if your application is a
document centric application,
it should not have any networking code.
We do the networking code.
So we have a number of new
features in Panfers that your
application can leverage.
We're adding IPv6, IPsec,
and based on IPsec,
we're adding VPN that I'm sure a
lot of you who are in corporate
environments will enjoy.
802NX, I already mentioned.
And something that your application
may actually want to use is what we
call the advanced reachability API.
Let's say your application
depends on the server as a whole.
And one way to make sure that
the service you depend on is
there is to ask every second,
every minute.
You just poll and ask.
This is terrible.
This is polling.
This is really bad for
a number of reasons.
So what we have provided is a
reachability API where you can say,
hey, I'm interested in this server.
Call me back when the
reachability change,
whether the server becomes
reachable or not reachable.
And one thing which is fantastic
is that we know exactly-- the
reachability because we are
working as a lowest layer here.
So I already mentioned
that networking is hard,
and this is BSD networking at
the lowest level is very tricky.
And so what we did is we put a layer
on top of the raw BSD networking that
we call CF network that abstracts
some of the difficulty away.
And it's an abstraction to
support a number of protocols,
sockets, DNS,
all the common protocols that
you use in your application.
It's also a layer that really meshes
well with your application because
all the data types that you use in
your application are the same data
types that are provided by CF network.
So you have a bag of byte,
you have a string,
and also it meshes with the event loop,
the run loop of your application.
So the--all the events coming from
CF network are just events that all
get merged together in this run loop
and that gets redistributed to--
wherever you want in your application.
We added some new functionality
for CF Network in Panfer.
We have a new host concept and
that's where you can do DNS lookups
all asynchronous and that's also
where the reachability plugs in.
So CF network is definitely easier.
It's also fast.
Now, why do I say fast?
Well, we use it.
We use it in key
applications that are fast.
If you look, for example, at Safari,
the speed derives from
the rendering engine,
of course,
but also from very fast networking.
All the networking in
Safari is done with CF network.
That's how we make sure that
what we do is really good.
And all the other applications
presented here to use CF Network.
Okay, so let's go back to that picture
and let's focus on another
interesting rectangle down
there and that's the hard drive.
That's the storage for your computer.
Now with mobility,
you have new problems with your storage.
The first problem that you have
is disconnecting because let's
say you access the server,
an NFS server, an SMB server,
an AFP server.
Now you close the lid and
move to another location,
you may not have access to the servers.
So what we are doing in Pantfa
is putting some effort into file
system mobility to facilitate
disconnection and reconnection.
So the AFP is--the AFP client
is now reconnecting when
you move to another locale.
Now in an industry first,
our NFS also supports mobility.
This is for all of you
who have been using NFS,
this is really industry first.
I mean you--usually when
you connect with NFS,
you are stuck, okay.
And you move to another location
where that server is not accessible,
you have the spinning wheel forever.
So another problem that you have with
mobility and storage is that you're going
to evolve the storage on your computer.
You're going to work on a number
of documents that you have locally.
Now, at some point,
you want to bring those documents
back to the rest of the world.
And so you have this thinking problem.
Now, this goes both ways.
The rest of the world also evolves,
and you may have some caches of
the rest of the world or some
documents from the rest of the world,
and they are still,
when you reconnect after
your airplane travel.
So that's why we have,
over the last year,
developed new syncing technologies
to help this mobility story,
to help the whole mobility problem area.
So we started at the end of last
year with addresses syncing,
calendar information syncing.
We added just a few weeks ago bookmarks
syncing for those of you who have
.Mac and have several computers.
Now, you can keep the bookmarks.
So, you can keep the bookmarks
on each computer the same.
It's really a lifesaver for me.
Now, new in Pantfor,
and this was touched upon this morning,
we're adding file syncing with the iDisk
syncing that enables you to keep the
iDisk the same on all your computers.
Okay, so let's go back to that
picture and there's those
bizarre cylinders down there.
What are they?
Well, those are all the weights that you
carry when you carry your portable.
That's where most of the mass is.
We're in the land of physics here.
That's your energy source.
So there's an interesting equation.
This is the biggest equation
I have in the presentation,
by the way.
I won't go any further than that,
which says that if you compute more,
you consume more energy.
Any registered transfer that
you do is going to eat a
little bit of that battery.
So the more you compute,
the more battery you eat,
the more energy you consume.
The same thing goes with the frequencies.
Actually,
roughly the square of the frequency.
So if you compute very fast,
you are going to consume a lot more of
the battery than if you compute slowly.
So what can we do about that?
Well,
if you look at that frequency term first,
the first thing that we can do
is slow down the OS when it's
not needed to go very fast.
And so we do that.
Okay.
We have this low power mode where we
just don't consume too much energy
and we slow down the processor.
We power step back.
Now let's look at the other term.
That's the computation.
And of course, you want to get rid
of all unneeded power.
So you can use the rich ability
API to avoid that computation.
Now, there's sometimes some
computations that are needed.
For example,
polling to have that server to know
whether that server is online or not.
That's not needed.
You can use a rich ability
API to avoid that computation.
So to summarize how to save that battery,
you should minimize the computation,
be even driven, and above all,
no polling.
Okay, so there's a number of recipes here
to be a great citizen for mobility.
You should adopt all the system
services that we provide as the
lowest layer for system networking.
You should use APIs like the
reachability API if that applies.
You can program at a higher
level using CF network.
You can performance tune by
having things more synchronous,
more even driven, more on demand.
You can use threading because
we have a modern operating
system that supports threading
in the networking intrinsically.
And you can be more even driven.
If you do all that,
you will reach the nirvana for mobility
which for me is cafe computing.
Okay, so that was mobility.
Now, what are you going to do
with all this mobility?
Reaching people is one of the
activities that we do the most
on our computers nowadays,
which is fantastic.
It's human-centric computing.
So we added a key technology
to reaching people,
and that's Rendezvous.
Rendezvous enables you to
discover your neighbors.
It's auto-discovery,
it's brassibility of the people
nearby in the networking sense.
Now, Rendezvous is totally compatible
with existing hardware and software.
You don't need to change your
routers or anything like that.
It's all based on standard networking.
It's all based on TCP IP and DNS.
It's fundamentally a new way to
use DNS and to build upon that.
Rendezvous, of course,
is modern and supports
human-readable names,
not 8-character limit
or anything like that.
And it's a key to ad-hoc networking.
When you don't have a sysadmin that's
going to hook up everything just right
and give all the IP addresses and put
everything in control and all that stuff.
When you just have totally ad-hoc,
you just plug in like
here in this conference.
This is ad-hoc networking and Rendezvous
is fantastic in those situations.
Now,
what's very pleasing is that we released
Rendezvous last year with Jaguar.
We had adopted it in a
number of applications.
This year we are using
Rendezvous even more.
We enhance some of those applications to
leverage even more Rendezvous and we're
adding new applications into the mix.
But beyond the adoption,
one thing that is really making
me happy is the innovation that
has taken place with Rendezvous.
And that innovation comes from you.
It comes in different forms.
For example, you have printers that
have adopted Rendezvous.
You have games, multiplayer games that
are using Rendezvous.
You have some devices and you
have some brand new way to do
collaboration using Rendezvous.
And that's very exciting to me.
So Rendezvous is fantastic to find
out who your neighbors are or to
communicate with your neighbors.
But there are times where you want
to reach someone who's not nearby.
And that's when the
address book comes handy.
So the address book is an
application we've invested a lot
of effort to make it just right.
And the address book, of course,
manages all your addresses.
Now, we have a number of applications
that use the same addresses.
And as time goes,
we put more and more applications
that go to the same storage.
Fundamentally,
the address book is an application
that uses a database that's underneath.
And the key here is a database.
The application is fantastic,
but it's on top of the database.
That database has a number of APIs that
you can use for your application.
We consider that the repository of
addresses is a system service that
we provide for all your applications.
We want this to become the hub for all
the communication-centric applications.
And we are doing a lot
of refinements in Panfor.
We are improving the API,
adding some functionality that
has been requested here and there.
One of the functionalities that we
add is what we call the action plugin.
So let me set this example.
Let's say I want to call this person.
I have his address card there.
And now I need to reach the
phone to call that person.
The problem is that
I don't have the phone.
I know that my screen is over there.
My phone is over there.
So I can just click at the right place.
And now I can enlarge the phone.
And now I can type the phone.
So this is a functionality that
we've added to the address book.
And that functionality is
using the action plugin.
And it's available for all of you to
specify for your data type how you
want to have-- what action you want
to have happen for that data type.
Another functionality we've added
is what we call the People Picker,
which enables you to filter the
database of all addresses and
select and let the user select
which address they want to have.
And then that selection is
available through your API.
Okay, so your application can definitely,
in many cases,
use those two fundamental technologies,
Rendezvous and Address Book.
And that's reaching people,
one of the activities we do
the most on our computers.
Now let's change the beat.
So this is my techno session.
That's really Unix that
I want to talk about.
So we have now
Mac OS X totally based on Unix.
This was a bold move and we wanted to
let the world know about that so we ran
this ad a year ago telling everyone,
"Hey, we are Unix-based."
Why would we choose Unix?
For a number of obvious reasons.
Unix is very, very solid.
Unix is powering the internet.
Most of the servers out there,
the internet servers,
are running Unix computers.
So that's kind of a
testimony of how solid it is.
It's very mainstream.
There's no doubt that you hear
talk about Unix every day nowadays.
It's quite interesting.
It was, for us, the fastest way to get
to a number of features.
No other place we could have
gotten a networking stack that
has thousands of engineering years
put into it in terms of tuning,
in terms of being standard compliant,
all those things.
In fact,
networking is defined on Unix in general.
And this was also a way for
us to attack new markets,
markets where Apple traditionally
had not been particularly strong
and now that we can go towards.
So with the great mobility that we have,
we have now a dream
machine for Unix folks.
It's a portable that you can
take on your conference calls.
You can do presentation because
you get all the standard software,
all the productivity software.
You get PowerPoint but also now Keynote,
of course.
And you also have Word, you know,
all those things that
all of us use daily.
And so some people are really liking it.
And if you look carefully
at that picture,
that's James Gosling of JavaFame who,
of course, is using a PowerBook.
So our Unix is very, very standard.
We are a very good Unix citizen.
In fact, if you work to a bookstore
and you look at some titles,
you will see titles like this
that all apply to our platform.
So is it perfect?
Well, we always get a lot of feedback.
There's always kind of requests.
And even though everyone is telling us,
yes, it's really a good citizen, I mean,
I was very surprised to find
everything I would expect.
So it's always the top of the list.
And the top of the list for us was X11.
So X11 is a toolbox,
a windowing toolkit that is very
ubiquitous in the Unix world.
I think X11 has been
ported on all the machines,
all the Unix machines in the world.
And if you go to the scientific areas,
you find applications that
are programmed to X11,
something for higher end.
So we've integrated
X11 right into Panfur.
And by integration,
I mean that rather than having one
big window that has all your X11
applications kind of inside that window,
now you can have X11 applications
that have windows that mix with other
windows from all the Cocoa apps,
all the Carbon apps.
So fully integrated with Quartz.
Another thing that was heavily
invested is to have really,
really fast X11.
And especially for doing
OpenGL functionality because a lot
of the scientific apps do use OpenGL.
And so those applications didn't want
some insulation layer with OpenGL.
They wanted to go down to the metal.
And this is what we have done.
When your application uses--your
X11 application uses OpenGL,
it's a native OpenGL.
Now let's talk about standards.
So another request that we have
constantly is to add things,
to add little things here and there.
And one of the top requests after
X11 was to add a great XML parser.
So we've looked around and we
asked a lot of people what's the
best XML parser that we could add.
And pretty much the consensus
that has formed is libxml2.
So this is what we're adding in Pound4.
Another place where we had
some requests was for locales,
and we added ICU,
the international components for Unicode.
We're adding WTRT,
which also was heavily requested
to help you port applications
to Mac OS X and a few others.
And of course,
there's a constant refresh.
We are committed to constantly
refresh all the Unix components
that need to be refreshed.
One of those things on the list,
on the refresh list, is UFS,
and that brings me into file systems.
We added journaling to the file
system last year for the server.
Now in Panther, it is a standard.
All Panther systems, by default,
will have a journaling file system.
This is taking the high-end technology
and making it available for everyone.
We added NFS locking.
Quite frankly,
it was a shame that we didn't do locking.
We fixed that.
We added mobility for the file systems,
as I already mentioned,
and we've had a lot of
emphasis on performance.
Performance of the remote
file systems like SMB,
NFS, and WebDAV,
but also performance of UFS.
Now for those of you who use UFS,
you are pretty much at parity
with HFS+, which is quite a feat.
Okay, so I'd like to digress a little bit
and talk to you about architecture.
I've been architecting systems or
being involved with architecting
systems for over two decades now.
And I've realized over the last
few years that I'm kind of part
of the old school of design.
So what do I mean by old school?
Oops.
OK.
So I started to realize a few
years ago that that's kind
of the old way to do design.
Let's say you have like
a subsystem to architect.
The first thing in the old school
that you do is really try to get
to the essence of the problem.
And you create this wonderful
engine that's going to
just address the problems,
you know, the core problems.
So you design this engine and the API,
of course, that you have on top of the
engine for all the applications.
And you spend a lot of design work there.
Now, there's some books that says, hey,
you should do top-down design,
all that stuff.
But we all know that it's
both top-down and bottoms-up.
You actually write some
code along the way.
And then you verify your assumptions
are correct and all that stuff.
But essentially,
this is the design phase.
After that, you write a lot of code.
And that can take months because
it's brand new piece of code.
And so we all know that
every 10 lines or so,
you make a mistake.
And you have to debug, find that mistake.
And even with something like Xcode,
it can take a bit of time.
So then you have this
system that's perfect.
OK.
You have it just perfectly
integrated to your system.
You are very happy with it.
And you say, well,
now I need to connect to
the rest of the world.
That's really ugly because the rest of
the world has all those legacy systems.
There's those standards
you need to connect to.
And that's where you need
to write adapter code.
This is tasteless.
And you write all those adapter codes.
And finally,
you have the systems that works
well for your system and that
integrates with the rest of the world.
Now,
I think there's a new way to do that.
And the new way is open source.
So how does that go with the new way?
The first thing you
do is you go shopping.
This is very bizarre.
You just go shopping.
The problems that you are trying to
solve probably has been solved by
quite a lot of folks in the past.
So you try to identify those bodies
of code that solve the same problems
that you are trying to solve.
And you evaluate those bodies of code.
You evaluate them looking at the
speed of those bodies of code.
You look at the standardness.
Are they standard compliant?
And this is the most
bizarre of all things.
You look at the reputation.
They're not the same reputation
that they have on the net.
This is really like shopping.
So the next thing that you do is
you write adapters to your system.
So this is kind of the reverse
of the previous picture.
The piece of code that you
have is totally standard.
It totally fits with
the rest of the world.
Now you are trying to
adapt it to your system.
So maybe your system has a different UI.
Maybe your system has
an Aqua user interface.
That's where you will write some
code to adapt it to your system.
Now this is not necessarily
a bad thing because you are
actually going to add value.
There are some examples that can
come to mind there where you add
value by making this fantastic user
interface on top of this engine
that was an open source engine.
And the last step,
which is very important,
is to advocate your
changes with the community.
You don't want to be on a diverging
branch of evolution because guess what?
The rest of the world will win, not you.
And so you want to make
sure you are all converged.
And the best way to advocate
your changes is to make sure that
you have value in your changes.
You don't want to do like crazy renaming
of variables and changing everything.
No, no, no.
That won't work.
You want to do the minimal
amount of code that adds value.
So what are the advantages
of this approach?
Obviously, this is time to market.
You no longer have the downtime
of going away for a few months
and writing all this new code.
Also, it's a lot more reliable,
which sometimes may be misunderstood,
but the open source code
is actually very reliable,
and this has been proven
in our experience.
We've done that with lots
and lots of bodies of code,
and typically,
the open source code has way less
bugs than the new code that we write,
because the new code
that we write is new.
There's no secret here.
It is also very secure,
very important in this modern age.
If the code is not open source, hey,
it's closed.
It's not secure.
That's pretty much always true.
And there's a social aspect of
this which I personally like,
which is this two-way
exchange with the community.
You get some, you give some back.
So we are using this strategy, of course,
in Mac OS X.
We've used that in Jaguar
for a number of components.
And we are doing that for
more and more components.
I just listed a few here.
One of the most noticeable
in this list is,
of course, KHTML,
which is the rendering engine of Safari.
But there's many more.
In fact, you go to any group at Apple,
and pretty much every
group is incorporating open
source one from another.
Okay, so in summary with your
application and Unix,
first,
if your application has been running
on Unix forever but not on Mac OS X,
bring it.
Join the party.
This is the place where things happen.
And it's easy to port your application
to Mac OS X because Mac OS X is very,
very standard.
We've got all the facilities
that you want to help you port.
Now conversely,
if your application has been
running on the Mac forever,
now you have some new
markets where you can expand.
You can go to the scientific market.
You can go to the higher ed,
to the enterprise market.
And the two sides can come in.
There's some technologies that are
long time Mac OS technologies or
technologies in your application
and there's some technologies
that come from the Unix world.
There's new synergies to explore there.
And think about
incorporating open source.
This can save us quite a lot
of time and you end up with
a better product in the end.
So this was my techno section.
At this point I'd like to thank
you to have come from all over
the world to San Francisco.
And one reason why you may have come
here is that you went on the web and
saw this enticing video saying "Come
here to San Francisco!" And that video
of course features Scott Forstal,
my friend and colleague,
that is going to take over at this point.
So now you know that
I only have one nice shirt.
This is not an intro for me,
this is an intro for Aqua.
So we believe Aqua is incredibly sexy
and we've worked this year to make it
even sexier and we've worked to improve
the usability of Mac OS X as a whole.
So let's get into it.
We started with the open and save panel.
Here's the open panel.
here's the open down here
there's the open now in jaguar
A few people didn't think it
was the greatest open panel
they'd ever seen in the back row.
And we agree.
The problem with this open
panel is it wasn't user-centric.
It wasn't human-centric.
It was all about the computer.
It was computer-centric.
I mean,
just to get to your home directory,
you're four levels down, right?
You're always scrolling back
and forth trying to find things.
So one thing we did this year is
we have this brand new finder,
right?
A user-centric finder.
And inspired by this,
we have a brand new open panel as well.
So the open panel has the same
left column you see in the finder.
You can get to your documents folder,
your pictures, anything in your home
directory extremely easily.
It's right there for you.
You can also get to your devices.
And really importantly,
and I've been using this
for a while and I love it,
you can get to your removable media,
right?
So you throw a disk in
or you mount a drive.
It's right there in your
open panel in your face.
Another request we have,
which we have for Panther now,
is we've added ListView.
So--
This view is built in.
We also have a path pop-up up there.
We have back and forward buttons.
So we think you're going to love it.
Now we haven't forgotten about how
you like to customize the open panel,
right?
You like to add your own widgets.
So we have that as well in an
accessory view at the bottom.
So we've done this in a
binary compatible way.
There's no new APIs you
should have to worry about.
Your application should just get
this much improved open panel
when you run it on Panther.
Please install the seed
you got this morning.
Test it out.
Let us know if there's any issues
because we tried you lots of tricks
for those of you who are doing crazy
things in your open panels to get
your controls in the right place.
We think we've done it, but let us know.
And of course,
we didn't forget about the save panel.
So again, we've made it user-centric.
We've been asked a lot
about that switcher thing.
People say, hey,
what about that switcher thing?
Not that switcher thing.
Although we get asked a lot
about that switcher thing also.
That switcher thing right there.
So we have this view
switcher in the finder.
And we've decided, you know,
it really works well as a control
in a number of different places.
So we have it in the finder.
You notice we have it in iPhoto as well.
We added it to the address book.
So we had a lot of requests
from people saying,
hey, you know, you're using that.
And we actually had implemented
that ourselves in each of our apps.
But it clearly was a nice
standard control that you wanted.
And so for Panther,
it's built into both Carbon and Cocoa.
You've got it.
We worked really hard this year to polish
Aqua and make it even that much better.
Here is Aqua in Jaguar which we thought
was great but we knew we could do
better and every release we try to
refine it and make it even better.
The first thing we looked at
were those white corduroy lines.
We felt they were a little too strong.
In some places,
you'd look at a window and
if there was text over it,
it felt more like an interference
pattern than it did like a nice texture.
So we went through tons and tons
of different background patterns
trying to look for something better.
I mean, sort of like Thomas Edison going
through filaments for a light bulb.
We threw each one out.
We threw out different materials.
We had a mock-up with gold.
And at the end we settled
for something which is very,
very subtle.
You can see it better on your
machine when you install it,
but here it is.
So here's Jaguar Panther.
Jaguar Panther.
What we've done is we've toned it back.
It's very, very subtle.
Your eye sort of notices
that there's something,
there's a texture there,
there's something elegant,
but it doesn't get in the way of
readability of text or other elements.
The next thing we
looked at were the tabs.
So, you know, these tabs work fine,
but the top felt a little bit clunky.
And we love the switcher thing
we've added to the tool kits.
So we looked at that and said,
we can start with that
and then we can do better.
We can make a tab out of that.
You notice the tab here also,
it's a sheet that sits sort of
awkwardly on top of the window.
We decided to etch it in.
So there's the tabs on Jaguar,
there's on Panther.
So Jaguar Panther.
I think it's great and the most
important thing for all of you is
the mantra this year was "Save the
same metrics." So this is the exact
same metrics as the tab in Jaguar.
The content region is the same,
the control is the same.
You don't need to do anything,
you get it for free.
The next thing we looked
at was the toolbar.
So there's some apps that use
the toolbar in a way where
it's more of a view switcher.
When you click on it,
like in System Preferences,
it takes you to a given pane.
But there's no persistent
state in the toolbar in Jaguar
to show you where you are.
Now there is.
So here's Jaguar, here's Panther.
Persistent state lets
you know where you are.
There's an API you can adopt for that
if you use the toolbar in that way.
Next we looked at the title bars.
The inactive title bar goes translucent.
Nice use of quarts, bad use of UI.
To find what windows are inactive,
you have to sort of look around and say,
well, what windows are translucent?
And how do you know that?
Well, it gets a different color depending
on what the background is behind it.
You look at the untitled there,
and it's a little difficult to read.
You get interference,
especially if it's over
another text document.
So we said, okay,
we're going to take and make the
inactive title bar windows opaque now.
Once you do that,
it becomes more difficult to tell
what the active title bar is.
So we took the active title bar,
and we add a nice,
simple gradient on top of it.
And here it is.
There's Jaguar, Panther.
Jaguar, Panther.
We think you're going to love it.
The next thing we do is panels.
So in Jaguar, there's no way for you to
tell if a panel is key.
Meaning if you hit delete here,
is it going to delete a font
collection or is it going to delete
characters in your text document?
Right?
There was absolutely no distinction.
What we've done in Panther is there's
now a key state for your panels.
So here's Jaguar, here's Panther.
You can actually tell.
And it turns out there's
three distinct states now.
There's the key state,
and this in the panel is now key.
There's the document it's acting on,
which actually has a
little bit of a gradient,
but it's a very light gradient,
and that's the main window.
And then there's the inactive
window in the background.
Now, you shouldn't have to worry
about this as a developer.
The toolkit should handle
this for you automatically.
Unless you're doing wacky stuff
with the toolkits and windows,
so you should pay attention to make
sure you're not breaking our job of
doing this automatically for you.
So that's the third state.
So here is Aqua in Jaguar,
Aqua in Panther.
Jaguar, Panther.
So we heard this year that
size definitely does matter.
And we've reacted to that.
You see, we've had our standard controls.
And the standard controls-- buttons,
sliders, and everything-- work
great almost everywhere.
I mean, in most usage,
you want to use the standard controls.
But some places,
you want to use small controls
because you're creating a palette.
So you want to squeeze a
little more into that palette.
But we found that in some palettes or
pro apps with lots and lots of palettes,
you
Even with these small controls,
it feels a little bit cramped.
And so we got requests to
have even smaller controls.
So new for Panther,
we're adding mini controls.
So we still have our
standard size controls,
our small controls,
and now this suite of mini controls.
And if you look back
at that palette again,
here's the palette with
the small controls,
which looks pretty good.
Here's the same palette
with mini controls.
You can really tighten it up
and you save that much space.
So if your app is the
type that it's a pro app,
you have lots of palettes,
take advantage of the new
mini controls in Panther.
So we're going to help you find
what you're looking for in Panther.
When we built iTunes,
we found that one of the most
important elements we added,
one of the most important
features we built in,
was this.
It's this great search field.
There's three elements
to this search field.
It's fast, it's incremental,
and it's readily accessible.
It's right there in the main window.
As we built other applications,
like mail, we found the exact same thing.
We wanted to have a fast search field,
incremental,
and right there in the main window.
Address book.
Fast, incremental,
right there in the main window.
iCal has the same thing,
as does the new Finder, right?
It's one of the really important
features of the new Finder.
The new font book.
Great search field built right in.
Even Xcode is really built around
having great search built right in.
We found this wasn't just
an element for us to do.
It's really more about the user
experience of using most applications.
If you can build great search
right into your application,
your application will feel better.
It'll be a better
experience for the user.
So we're going to help you
out in two ways this year.
Number one,
we're going to provide the UI.
There's now a standard search widget
built into both Cocoa and Carbon.
It looks like this.
We're branding the rounded
text fields to mean search.
So if you use a rounded text field,
that's a search field.
Don't use it to mean anything else.
It has an optional magnifying glass.
You can use that to have a drop-down
menu where you can scope your searches,
where you can save older
searches and someone can choose
the older searches from there.
So that's the optional magnifying glass.
It also has an X in there which clears
the search once someone's typed it.
So we're providing the UI in both
Cocoa and Carbon for Panther.
Next, we're providing the engine.
So we're building in a new framework
into Panther called Search Kit.
Search Kit is a search engine you
can all use for your applications.
We already use it for these applications,
so for the finder, for the address book,
mail, help.
It works really well.
So what is SearchKit?
It's vTwin, but much evolved.
So back in Mac OS 9,
we had something called vTwin.
It's a search engine.
People really liked it,
and we've been moving it forward,
and we got it to the point now
where we're ready to make it
public in Mac OS X and fully
support it going forward.
It supports a bunch of
different kinds of searches.
So prefix searches,
like you'll see in address
book in a lot of these apps,
Boolean searches,
natural language searches
so you can ask a question,
and even similar documents.
So if you do a search and it
comes back with a document,
but that isn't the document
you're looking for,
but you know the document you're
looking for is similar to that document,
we'll actually do an
analysis of that document,
look at all the other
documents you've indexed,
and return the similar ones.
And it's fully Unicode based.
CFString API is built right in so you can
index any of your different languages.
For Japanese, we actually do some
really difficult work,
which is we have to do linguistic
analysis to figure out where
the word boundaries are,
because there aren't
obvious word boundaries.
We do that,
all built right into search kit.
It supports these six document
types right out of the box.
So text, RTF, RTF with graphics, HTML,
PDF, and even Word.
But when your application
adopts SearchKit,
you can add on support for any
type of application that your,
or any type of document that your
application knows how to parse.
So that's Aqua.
We've taken the finder and made it very
user centric instead of computer centric.
We've taken the open and save panels and
moved them right along with the finder.
We've added that switcher
thing as a standard widget.
We've really refined Aqua and we
think you're going to like it.
We've really tried to
polish every little thing.
There's a lot of other things
I didn't show you which we polished.
We've added many controls and
we encourage you to adopt search
and we've provided both the
search field and a framework to
help you do the indexing itself.
I'm not going to moonwalk.
So for text,
we've done a bunch of things this year.
Starting with text input for Japanese.
We've really improved
text input for Japanese.
The first thing we did was simplify it.
In Jaguar, you had to go to a bunch
of different menus,
different palettes to try to
find the right input method.
In Panther,
there's a single menu for you to go to.
It has everything you need and
there's a standard single palette
you can keep on your screen to switch
between the different input modes.
So we've simplified the UI.
The next thing we did is
we improved the accuracy.
We made it a better input method.
There's two main ways we did this.
We started off by using
the latent semantic mapping
technology from our speech team.
Now, this is the same technology we
use to do junk mail filtering.
And what we've done is we've
used the latent semantic
We use it to predictively guess based
on the characters you're typing what
actual character you're going for.
So based on the keystrokes you're typing,
what character you're going for.
And this actually improves
our accuracy quite a bit.
The next thing we've done is we used the
context in which you're typing to figure
out what character you're looking for.
So as you're typing along,
rather than having to guess what
character you're going for purely
based on the keystrokes you've done,
we look in the document,
we look around in the
document for other characters.
So if the keystrokes you've typed could
resolve in three different characters,
and you've already typed one of
those characters into your document,
a line above, we'll guess that character.
So it helps the user, you know,
get the better characters faster.
Now the important thing here is you
need to adopt this to help us out.
So there's a protocol.
You need to adopt this protocol,
which will vend back the context of
the document the person's typing in
so it can pick the right characters.
We've also added a preference for all
of those people who are coming from
the dark side to the Mac and they still
want to feel comfortable with elements
of the old crack home and the new home.
So you can use the same pipe,
but it's now on the Mac,
and it feels comfortable.
Font Support.
We've really simplified
dealing with fonts in Panther.
The first thing is installing fonts is
as easy as double clicking a font file.
It comes up with this preview,
you hit install,
it goes right to the font book.
So installation, incredibly easy.
But the access for those fonts
is in the font panel itself.
So you should build the font panel and
use the font panel in your applications.
That's where your users
will get at the fonts,
but they install it
through the font panel,
or through the font book.
Next, the font book is for organization.
So you can create new collections.
You can populate these collections.
And again, you access those collections,
you access those fonts through the
font panel in your application.
You can also activate
and deactivate fonts.
So take that font collection we just had,
we deactivate,
and you'll see it disappears
from the font panel.
So we really encourage you to use
the font panel as the standard access
method on the system for fonts.
However, we know that some of you have
very custom UIs for your fonts,
and the font panel doesn't
make sense for you.
So for all of you, in Panther,
we've added a new set of APIs to
get directly at these collections,
the activation and deactivation of those,
you can use it directly.
Text performance.
There's one thing we heard loud
and clear from you about our
text performance in Jaguar.
I see that all the fish fans
have perked up from making
bongs out of their new cameras.
They're the only fans where
text feels almost too fast.
So if you sample your application,
you're going to find that a
lot of time in your application
is spent dealing with text.
It's spent laying out the text,
measuring the text,
drawing it to the screen,
redrawing it when
there's a window resize.
And that makes sense because a lot of
what your application does is draw text.
So this is how we've optimized it.
All text is drawn in
Translucent in Panther.
So we looked at that
and we actually said,
well, here's a great opportunity.
Because anything we can do to
improve the performance of text is
going to improve the performance
of every one of your applications
and of the system as a whole.
And so we looked at
all this text we draw,
and we spent a lot of time
optimizing all of this for Panther.
And I think you're going to be
really pleased with what we have.
Let's look at the stages where
we went through and optimized.
We looked at the font system,
so ATS and all the different
pieces involved there.
We looked at core graphics and how
we get everything to the screen.
ATSUI does a lot of the layout
and the Carbon and Cocoa APIs.
We had a concerted effort this year
where we went through and we optimized
every single layer of the tech system.
Then we stood back and we
optimized holistically.
We looked across
different layers and said,
"Are there places where ATSUI needs
to leverage the font system directly?
Is there an impedance mismatch
and can we plug that up with
some new APIs to make it faster?
Are there places where Carbon should
talk directly to Core Graphics?" And so
we optimized across layers as well.
What I'm pleased to say is
the outcome of this is if you
look at any of the text APIs,
pretty much from the lowest
level to the highest level,
they're all more than
twice as fast in Panther.
So this is a great achievement.
There's some places where it's
even much faster than that.
So it's five or 10 times faster.
Again, I absolutely encourage you,
please install the new seed and
see what performance improvements
you get out of the text in Panther.
We're continuing to optimize text
and will do so until the final
version of Panther is in the box.
So you still have time to let us know,
are there any bottlenecks remaining?
If so, we'll try to improve them
before we go 10.3 with Panther.
That's text.
So we've improved the Japanese input.
We've added great support for
font maintenance and management,
and most importantly,
a lot of performance work.
So Carbon, we believe, is a gem,
and we're treating it that
way and continue to evolve it.
A lot of what I've already talked
about for things like the switcher
thing and mini controls are features
that we've added to Carbon this year.
So I'm just going to talk about a few
specifics for Carbon in this section.
This is the age of HIVU.
Last year we introduced HIVU to you.
We spent a lot of our time this
year improving HIVU and sort of
making it permeate throughout Carbon.
Hiview is the future of the HIToolbox.
So if you have a Carbon application,
adopt Hiview.
Most of you have already
adopted Carbon Events,
which is great.
Hiview is the next step in this progress.
We've added HITextView.
So we took MLTE and it's now an Hiview.
We have HIView based menus,
so it's much easier for
you to extend menus,
for you to add your own functionality.
If you saw this morning,
we have this action menu in the
finder and allows you to set
different colors for labels.
That's all done through the use
of the new HIView based menus.
And we've added great layout support.
So we have springs and rods,
but we also have very
complex relationships.
So you can look at different views,
can sort of pay attention to each other,
and when the window resizes,
they can resize in very complex
relationships whatever you
need for your applications.
And it's much faster,
which is another theme of
the HIToolbox this year:
performance optimizations.
We have a complete set
of Quartz theme APIs.
So we used to use Quartz in our layer.
Then we'd go through Quick Draw and
we'd go back to Quartz.
And it was a little slow.
We now have top to bottom,
a complete path, which is all Quartz.
We encourage you to take advantage of it.
It's much, much faster.
Data Browser.
Data Browser, we heard from you,
wasn't fast enough.
We made it 25% faster to add new items,
80% faster to remove items,
and if you have very large data sets,
it is much, much, much faster.
Much.
And it now supports
compositing mode as well.
We've also really
improved window resizing,
so it's at least 30% faster.
In most cases,
if you have a fully composited window,
it's even faster.
So we encourage you to have
your app be fully composited.
It's Carbon.
So we think you'd be loco not to
use Cocoa for a new application.
All right, again, just like Carbon,
we've added a lot of
things to Cocoa this year,
but I'm going to talk about just one.
So stepping back,
there's a standard developer paradigm
called model view controller,
right?
And so most of you
probably know what this is,
but you take your application,
you separate out the UI piece,
which is your view from the model piece,
your data, and there's this controller
layer in between,
which pretty much is the glue
that moves things back and forth.
So Cocoa has had a model in NSDocument,
and it also had a view in NSView,
but it hasn't had a controller layer.
What this means is you've had to write
a lot of glue in your applications
to do that controller layer.
I'm happy to say that for Panther,
we're adding a controller layer.
NSController.
So why should we do a controller layer?
OK, this is up to 10,000 feet now.
Our goal as a platform
vendor is to make you
The most efficient developer
you possibly can be.
We want you, when you have a new idea,
to implement that idea on Mac OS X first
and get it done the fastest possible.
So that's our goal.
We believe that Cocoa,
that the shortest distance between a
brand new idea and an app implementing
that idea is Cocoa on Mac OS X.
So what do we do to that end?
Number one, we provide all the
standard functionality.
So we provide views and controls
and text views and collection
classes and on and on and on.
Cocoa is our advanced object-oriented
framework and it provides all
that standard functionality.
The next thing we do is we continue
to try to eliminate redundant code.
So if we see that several
applications are trying to
do a certain thing with text,
we add new APIs to the text
system to help you out.
But this year, we sat back and said,
can we do more?
And inspired by a couple
technologies Apple's had,
EOF and WebObjects,
we've added a whole new layer which
eliminates an entire class of glue code.
So we're getting rid of the glue code.
So what is this glue code?
You know when you're writing an
application and a user updates a value
in a text field and then you need
to write this glue code which goes
and updates your model based on it.
You don't have to write
that code anymore.
It's gone.
The controller layer we provide
does that automatically for you.
When your model changes,
you have to have glue code which then
reflects that new value in the UI.
You no longer have to
write that code in Panther.
The controller layer takes
care of that for you.
You might have a couple UI elements
or multiple UI elements all
reflecting the same data value,
the same model.
And you have to write all this
code where if it changes one place,
you synchronize all the other ones
so they don't get out of sync,
so you see the same value everywhere.
You no longer have to
write any code for that.
It's all done automatically
in the controller layer.
And sometimes the user will
click to change something.
For instance, you have a table view,
a big list of values
with multiple columns.
And depending on which
column the user clicks on,
you sort by that column.
You've had to write all this glue code
to do sorting for your table views.
No longer.
The controller layer now supports
sorting out of the box for free.
and of course we didn't forget
that if we're doing it we
better integrate it into IB.
So Interface Builder in the past has
supported hooking up targets and actions
meaning you could tie your UI directly
to the controller layer you were writing.
In Panther you tie your
UI directly to your data,
directly to your model.
You don't have to write any of
that controller glue in between.
It's all provided by this new
controller layer in Cocoa.
That's the controller layer.
Alright, let's talk about the internet.
We'll start off with Sherlock.
So what is Sherlock?
Sherlock is a web
services host application.
So you can write, quickly write,
a web service, a client side of a web
service as a Sherlock channel.
It'll run inside of Sherlock and
you'll get this great client side
experience for that web service.
So an XML feed or an HTML feed.
You can get that right inside here.
So here's an example of one of the ones
we've written for our movie channel.
It seems that we're required by our
CEO to have everything be Nemo this year.
So, you know,
this is a nice standard channel.
What we found this year is that more
of you have been writing channels.
And so we needed a way to
organize these channels.
So we used the same library organization
mechanism that we have in Safari and
have brought it into Sherlock.
So we now have that.
The most important one of
those collections on the left,
though, is this one.
This is a dynamic collection.
It's a dynamic collection of every
channel which appears either on DMOZ,
and DMOZ is an open directory,
sort of the Yahoo of open directories.
They collect things,
they collect Sherlock channels.
So if your channel appears on DMOZ,
or you submit it directly to us,
it'll appear in everyone's
copy of Sherlock dynamically
every time they launch it.
So this is the way for you to get
your channels out to everyone else.
That's Sherlock.
Safari.
When we built Safari,
we had five main goals.
The first two were performance-related.
It had to be fast.
And it had to be small.
So we've succeeded on these two goals,
and Safari is the fastest
browser on the Mac,
as you know.
Most of you probably use it.
And I get asked a lot, well,
how did we succeed on it?
How did we make it small and fast?
What did we do?
So let me take you through
that just a little bit,
because it wasn't magic.
And I think this might help
you understand what we did.
So it'll help you make your
applications fast as well.
Most importantly,
we made performance the most
important feature of the application.
This is one of those things where for
engineers to actually work on things,
you have to make it a feature
that they're going to measure it
against or else they're going to
sort of ignore it until the end.
So we made it the most important
feature for everyone on the team.
We started with a small code base.
If you have a small code base,
you're running less code.
It also means you can get your
head around all that code code,
so you can optimize the entire thing.
And this is probably the one
which is the most controversial.
It's the first project I've
seen actually that does this.
We allowed no performance
regressions from build to build.
Period.
So even when an engineer
implemented some new feature and
they checked that new feature
into the code base and we
built that and we measured it.
If our page load times
got any slower at all,
we checked that back out of
the main trunk of the code.
The engineer had to find a way
to make it to implement it again
without any performance regressions.
Or they could be tricky and go optimize
a different part of the system,
a different part of the
application and check it back
in so it still didn't regress.
That was the rule.
Now you can't tell people that up
front because they put really slow
stuff all over the place and the
sleeps come out as they add features.
So we measured constantly
to know where we were also.
This was really important.
We hand-timed things,
we sampled running processes,
we built automated tests,
and we created charts,
charts all over the place,
so we saw what was happening
with our performance.
So we were never surprised.
You know,
a chart would come out every day or every
other day whenever there was a build,
and if we saw there was a blip
going the wrong direction,
we'd check that code back out.
There's a lot of great tools
in the system and we use them.
So Sampler's a really good tool to
find out where you're using CPU time.
Malik Debug and Heap are
great for memory usage.
Quartz Debug, if you haven't run it,
is fantastic for finding
your drawing problems.
If you're drawing a control two times,
three times, four times,
if you're drawing it multiple times,
Quartz Debug will flash it right in
your face and let you know that you're
drawing something multiple times.
FS Usage tells you how often
you're touching the file system.
And the more you touch the file system,
the more your application
runs at the speed of the disk
instead of the speed of the G5.
And trust me,
the G5 is faster than your disk.
So run FS Usage and cut down the number
of times you're touching the disk.
And there's a lot of other tools.
We ran all the tools.
This one I think is one
of the most important.
We built performance tests
directly into the application.
That means that anyone internally running
Safari throughout the entire development
cycle could run the performance tests.
That means I could run them, and I did.
Each time I got a new version of Safari,
I would run the PLT,
I would run the tests
that were built right in,
I would see what the
speed was on my machine,
I knew what it was supposed to be,
I would know if it got any slower,
and if it did, I'd call someone.
So, building tests directly
into your application is,
I mean, I can't overstate this,
if you look at applications
where people have done this,
those are generally fast applications.
So what are the lessons we learned?
Make performance a priority.
If you do, your app will be fast.
Use the right API for the job.
This is one of those things
where it should be obvious,
but we have lots of APIs on our system.
And some of them are generic
and do a good job of a large
amount of functionality.
For instance,
we have APIs that are meant for a large
editable text view and it's meant to
handle bidirectional Unicode text.
Right?
So this is great, but it's not great if
you're drawing a label.
So we've added optimized APIs for
certain smaller pieces of functionality.
So when you're going through and you find
an API that solves the need you want,
keep reading through that header
file to see if there's anything else
we've added just for your usage.
Use the right API for the job and
you'll get better performance.
Measure, measure, measure.
Measure to find where
your bottlenecks are.
Measure to find if the new API you're
using is going to be a good one.
using is better for the job and
measure to prove to yourself after
you've made the optimization that it
actually made your application faster.
and never regress.
Again, this was controversial,
but it really helped us nail it.
Instead of trying to optimize at the end,
we were optimizing the entire time,
so we made architectural changes
that would make the app fast.
Alright, let's get back to the goals.
The next goal, we want it to be native,
so we want it to be a
great Mac OS X citizen,
leverage all the features we have
on the system like CF Network,
We wanted it to be real
world standards compliant.
So of course we wanted to support
all the standard buzzwords,
all the standard, you know,
the standard standards.
But if you go to eBay and, you know,
I don't know if anyone's here from eBay.
If you go to eBay and it
doesn't render for you,
even if it's not following a standard,
it, you want it to render,
you don't care.
And so we made sure that all the
sites out there would render.
We wanted real world
standards compliance.
But most important for you,
one of our main goals from the
moment we started this project
was that it be embeddable.
Our goal was to be able to open this up
and have you embed everything about the
guts of Safari into your applications.
So let's look at that.
Here's Safari.
Here's the way we built it.
Safari itself is just a thin
layer on the top of this stack.
Everything else are public APIs.
So we start with the
standard BSD sockets.
CF Network is where we
implement most of our protocols,
and Bertrand talked about that earlier.
Foundation URL APIs.
So Foundation has been
greatly enhanced in Panther.
It has fantastic URL loading.
It's much enhanced from Jaguar.
It has automatic content caching.
It supports standard
authentication schemes.
It has extensible streams.
So we now have a stream object.
You can subclass it.
You can extend it.
We provide all the standard protocols,
but you can extend that
with custom protocols.
And we support cookies.
C is for cookie,
that's good enough for me.
I've got a four year old.
Alright, WebKit.
Let's look inside WebKit.
This is Safari.
This is WebKit.
WebKit is that content region of Safari.
You can build it into your applications.
We built it directly into Mail,
so Mail now has much
better HTML rendering,
but this is WebKit.
Most important for you,
you can build it into your application.
So WebKit is that content
region and more of Safari.
We support standards,
so here's all the buzzwords that HTML4,
XML, I'm not going to read to you,
but we support all the standards.
And we are a member of the W3C and are
actively working on new standards which
we'll support as the W3C decides on them.
That's WebKit.
Let's look inside it for a moment.
There's two main pieces inside of WebKit.
It's WebCore and JavaScript Core.
So WebCore is the open
source KHTML library.
We encourage you to become members
of the open source community,
contribute to this the same
way we're contributing to it,
and it will benefit all of us.
JavaScript Core is KJS,
again the open source
version of the library.
We encourage you to support it.
Now one thing we've been telling you
for the last few years is if you're
building a brand new application,
you should go find some open
source code that's great and then
if it's a brand new application,
build a beautiful Cocoa UI on top of it.
It's the fastest way for you to
get your application out the door.
It's exactly what we did here.
KJS is C++, WebCore is C++,
both open source.
We used Objective C++ and WebKit to
marry the whole thing together and
build this beautiful UI called Safari.
But the important thing for you is
WebCore and JavaScript Core are pieces
and implementation details of WebKit,
but for you, the API to use on
Mac OS X is WebKit itself.
So this is WebKit,
and that is where it falls in the stack.
We've taken and built Safari in
such a way that you can take
advantage of almost all of the
APIs directly in your application.
And to show that,
I'd like to bring Richard Williamson,
engineer extraordinaire,
up on stage to blow you away with
how easy it is to use WebKit.
Hi.
So I'm going to give
you a demo of WebKit.
And what better way to do that
than to build a web browser?
So let's get started.
I'm going to launch Interface
Builder and start a new application.
And you'll notice that Interface
Builder has a new palette.
The WebKit palette.
This palette has a single class on it.
It's called the WebView.
Let's add a WebView to our window.
Resize it.
Set some resize flags
on the web view itself.
Now,
how do I load a URL into this web view?
I'll use a text field.
Drag out a text field,
place it in the window,
and using the normal
target action mechanism,
connect it to the web view.
Now I'd like to add a
few more... This is good,
but I'd like to add a few more features.
Maybe a back and a forward button.
So let's drag out a back button,
place it in the window,
and a forward button.
Give these buttons labels-- back,
Forward.
And again, using target action,
connect them to the web view.
And finally, I'm going to set the resize
flags on these widgets.
That's it.
I haven't written any code.
Nothing's compiled.
Let's go ahead and test this.
How about checking out Apple's site?
So Scott's going to sign
for one of these G5s,
I hope.
So back and forward, these buttons work.
You'll notice, though,
a few things aren't quite right.
The URL in the text field
doesn't update as I navigate.
And the back/forward buttons don't
disable and enable as I'd expect.
Now we all know this point,
to really make an application work,
you write lots of glue code.
Glue code be gone.
So I'm going to add these features,
enable and disable the
back/forward button,
update the URL in the text field,
and also show a progress indicator
without writing any code.
And I'm going to do this using
the new controller technology.
So the first thing we'll
do is create a controller.
Now going back to the text field,
what I'd like to do is share
the same underlying URL for the
web view and for the text field.
As I navigate, I'd like to update
that in the text field.
So we're going to bind the URL to
both the web view and the text field.
But first let me disconnect
the target action.
Then I'm going to go to
the new bindings inspector.
And this lets me bind properties to
the various elements that are selected.
In this case, I'm going to bind the
value of the text field
to the mainframe URL.
Now for the back and forward buttons,
I'm going to associate their
enabled state with properties on
the web view that tell me whether
or not I can go back or forward.
And then finally,
I'd like to add a progress indicator
so I know when the page is loading.
And we'll make this progress
indicator determinant.
Its value will go from 0 to 1.
And let's bind it.
Its value again will come
from the web view controller,
estimated progress.
We set the resize flags.
Now we have another browser.
Again, no glue code, nothing compiled.
Let's test it.
This time, I'm going to go to the
mandatory Pixar site.
And let me emphasize,
the content you see here is exactly the
same content you would see in Safari.
Let's check out a trailer.
So the back and forward buttons
enable and disable as we expect and
as I navigate the URL is correctly
reflected in the text field.
That's the WebKit and the
controller technology.
Thank you.
There are more in-depth
sessions on both of these areas,
so I encourage you strongly to go out
and check out the more in-depth sessions.
Thanks, Scott.
Thanks, Richard.
All right.
So that's the architecture.
The web kit is available
to both Carbon and Cocoa.
It's available on both
Jaguar and Panther,
and it's available today.
You can download the SDK,
the 1.0 SDK for Jaguar today
and ship your apps on it.
So what we've done is we've
taken Safari and we've opened up
the engine and given it to you
to embed in your applications.
With that,
I'd like to turn it back to Bertrand.
Thanks.
Thanks Scott.
So we are running a little late
and there's so much in Pantfer,
so I thought I'd take a few things and
put them together in the Pantfer Parade.
So ladies and gentlemen,
the Pantfer Parade!
Okay, enough of that.
So the first technology
I chose is ColorSync.
ColorSync is about color correct images.
And it's really a shame if you go
to a real life safari in Africa,
take this picture of this lion,
and you open it with several
apps and it doesn't look the
same in the different apps.
So it's really a shame because
we have this great technology,
ColorSync, and we've made it really
fast over the last few years.
So that there's no excuse
for not using ColorSync.
Now, I know that many of you have not
used ColorSync because it was a
little too hard because by default,
ColorSync was off.
We've changed the default.
Now ColorSync is on.
And so you automatically get the
benefits of ColorSync and you can--if
you have a color-specific application,
turn it off with a little more code now.
And QuickTime Graphics Importer
supports that philosophy as well.
Another long-time technology
we've had is AppleScript.
AppleScript is a blessed technology
for our end users who want to
automate certain workflows.
We also use that in a lot
of the publishing space.
So there's two sides to AppleScript.
There's a supplier side providing
scriptability and there's the
consumer side using scriptability.
For the supplier side,
obviously you need to make your
application Apple Scriptable.
And that's not too much work,
but you have to go do that.
Now for the consumer side,
what's really beautiful is that
you can use and leverage the other
applications that are Apple Scriptable.
And we've made more and more
applications Apple Scriptable.
We've enhanced the terminology
in all those applications.
We also added a facility to do
UI scripting so that even if you haven't
made your application Scriptable,
it will work with Apple Script.
Other technology, Veclib.
Veclib is fast math.
It's really, really super fast math.
It's used in all kinds of contexts.
It's used for linear algebra,
so of course something
like Mathematica uses that.
But something that's not obvious
is that even our little junk mail
filter in mail uses linear algebra.
It's used for signal processing,
all those FFTs for audio,
big nums for crypto.
And what we've done in Panfer,
we've optimized Veclib for the G5.
Now we added another technology
that we called V-Image,
which is now fast math,
but for 2D arrays.
This is for graphics, of course.
It's for doing convolution operations,
morphology operations,
all those things that I don't
know what they really,
really mean.
Or I don't understand
the math underneath them.
But what I can say is that it's really,
really fast math.
What I can show you is some pictures.
This is an example of blur.
Hopefully you can see it's blurred.
An example of embossing.
Another technology that we have is DVD.
We have had the DVD player for a while.
We've made that DVD player functionality
available to your application.
So if you want to embed usage
of a DVD in your application,
for example, for training or whatever,
now you can do it by using those APIs.
Another technology is, of course,
QuickTime.
We've seen a notary shot.
And QuickTime is embedded in Mac OS X.
We embed the latest QuickTime.
We have focused for this
release a lot on infrastructure.
A lot of you have asked to
have threat-safe QuickTime.
And now in Panther,
QuickTime will be threat-safe for
static images and for playing movies.
We have full support for Unicode.
And we've gutted the audio
infrastructure underneath QuickTime to
replace that with Core Audio.
Now that brings me to Core Audio.
Core Audio has been a wonderful
technology on Mac OS X.
One reason is that it has
been conceived from the ground
up to be a great X citizen.
Now we're adding features to Core Audio.
We're adding surround support.
And we're enhancing the real-time
effects and want to encourage all
of you to bring new audio units,
which is real-time effects,
to the platform.
Thank you.
We are supporting new formats.
And we make it really, really,
really fast.
It has very small latency.
And it also consumes
very little CPU to play.
And, for example, on Gigahertz PowerBook,
you can play AAC,
which is what we use for
the Apple Music Store,
of course,
with less than a percent of the CPU.
So that means you have 99% of the
CPU for the rest of your application.
Another technology that we
have is a window manager,
Quartz Extreme.
The vision behind Quartz and Quartz
Extreme is to have Hollywood effects
right on everyone's desktop.
And we are really moving
in that direction.
And some of the features that
you saw demo this morning,
like Exposé,
totally leverage this kind of facility.
Now, what we've done,
Core Graphics is the API to Quartz,
and we have rounded it a little more.
We've added a lot of the functions
that you've been requesting.
So, little functions here and
there to do shadowing,
to screen scrap, you know,
all those things.
Now, we also added some
brand new areas of API,
notably the PostScript to PDF converter,
and some APIs to deal with PDF.
Both PDF in terms of
the document structure.
We've all those nodes, the document tree,
and with PDF in terms of what gets drawn,
the pages.
So, you can access the pages
that are getting drawn.
Another technology in the
graphics land is OpenGL.
Now, OpenGL is, of course,
hardware accelerated.
It's 3D imaging, and it's used for games.
I mean,
most of the common games use OpenGL.
But one thing that I'd like
you to think about is that
OpenGL is not just for games.
You can use OpenGL to your
advantage for your application.
You can use OpenGL to get to the
next level of great user interface.
And my favorite application, of course,
is Keynote that totally leverages OpenGL.
Now the last technology that
I have is world readiness.
Now we've had an effort since
the inception of Mac OS X to
be a great global citizen.
We have devised this technology
that we call app packaging,
which is really fundamentally
an object-oriented concept.
All the languages supported by your
application go along the application.
We use that for all kinds of plugins.
Our frameworks are packaged that way.
And I am very pleased that
all of you have adopted that
packaging in your applications.
So our users out there in
the world really enjoy that.
We are doing just more of it
with more support for locales,
languages, and font.
It's easy to internationalize on 10.
So this is a very,
very quick panther parade.
Ladies and gentlemen,
thank you for going along
that panther parade.
And now I'm going to conclude.
So we've gone through a tour of a lot
of the developer features of panther.
And the transition from nine is over
for all of us for development purposes.
Thank you.
Thank you for bringing thousands
of applications onto the
planet and onto the platform.
Now we have some next challenges.
What are the next challenges?
What are the next
challenges for all of us?
It's to strive for excellence.
What do I mean striving for excellence?
The number one thing that
I mean is performance.
We should all make all our
applications more performings.
There's always some extra
speed to gain there.
And the key to do that is to think 10,
not 9.
A lot of the codes that we have
originated on 9 and was moved from 9.
We need to think,
get rid of all the dependencies on 9,
all the conceptual
dependencies on 9 and think 10,
10, 10.
We have great performance tools that
should be used and that can be used
to address the performance issues.
And performance does make a difference.
Safari has a great streamlined UI.
It has snapback and all those things.
But fundamentally, it's fast, fast, fast.
That's what users love.
Now fast is not everything.
Of course, there's functionality.
And one of the keys to add value,
of course,
to differentiate your application
from your competitors.
And one way to do that is to adopt and
integrate the basic system services,
the basic system frameworks.
They give you an extra bit of lift, OK,
to your application.
And you can focus on the higher
level of your application,
the higher level functionality rather
than having to reinvent the wheel.
It's more value with less code.
I hope you will enjoy
our pre-release of Manfr.
We've worked hard for it.
Thank you.